Chapter 5: Taking Responsibiity for Our Feelings

What is the difference between "stimulus" and "cause"?
What others do or say is stimulus that we receive based on our needs and expectations at the moment. How we receive that stimilus causes how we feel.


What "causes" a particular feeling in us?
What others do or say is stimulus that we receive based on our needs and expectations at the moment. How we receive that stimilus causes how we feel.


What are four options for hearing a difficult message?
1. Blame ourselves
2. Blame others
3. Sense our own feelings and needs
4. sense others' feelings and needs


How might we speak in a way that acknowledges responsibility for our feelings?
We accept responsibility by acknowledging our own needs and expectations. "I feel (emotion) because I (need)"


What is the basic mechanism behind guilt-tripping?
Attributing the responsibility for one's own feelings to others. "It hurts Daddy when you get poor grades at school"


What phrase does Marshall suggest using as a way to increase awareness of our responsibility for what we feel?
"I feel (emotion) because I (need)".


Instead of saying directly what we need, how do we often communicate to others when we want something? What kind of reaction are we likely to get by doing that?
We indirectly express our needs through evaluations, interpretations, and images that are heard as criticisms. When people hear criticism they often defend themselves or counter-attack.


How can we make it easier for other people to respond with compassion to what we want or are asking for?
By directly connecting our feelings to our needs.


Why might it be particularly difficult or painful for women to express needs?
Societal norms that loving women should sacrifice and deny their own needs.


What might be possible consequences not expressing our needs?
We might only be able to indirectly express our needs. Indirect expression is often heard as criticism leading to self-defense or counter-attack. This feedback makes expressing needs in the future even harder.


Define each of the three stages in emotional development?
Emotional slavery: take responsibility for others' feelings
Obnoxious: angrily asserting only our needs
Emotional liberation: taking responsibility for our intentions and actions and responding compassionately to others' needs
