Chapter 6: Requesting That Which Would Enrich Life

What constitutes a "request" in NVC?
Expressing a positive and concrete action that someone can take that might fulfill our needs.


What is the purpose of a "request" in NVC?
By asking for an action that someone can take that might fulfill our needs.


How is an NVC request different from a demand?
Instead of coercing a noncompliant person with criticism, judgements, or guilt trips, we first empathize with what's preventing the other person from saying yes, and then engage in persuasion.


How to test if a request is a request or a demand?
Its a demand if the request is not complied with and the initiator doesn't respectfully empathize with the other person's feelings and needs.


What happens when expressing requests in vague or abstract language?
The use of vague or abstract language often means we don't really know what we want or the actual request is unlikely to be meet (e.g. to be loved, I want someone to guess what I want before I'm even aware of it).


What happens when expressing requests by stating only our feelings?
It may not be clear to the listener what we want them to do.


Why do we sometimes hear a demand even when the speaker is actually making a request of us?
Requests may sound like demands when unaccompanied by the speaker's feelings and needs.


The author believes that whenever we speak to someone, we are requesting something in return? List three things we may want in return.
Empathy, verbal or nonverbal acknowledgment, honest reaction to our words


What's the reason to ask someone to reflect back what we just said to them?
To make sure that the message sent is the message that's received.


What might we do if the other person gets annoyed when we ask for a reflection?
Empathize with listener "Are you feeling annoyed, do you want respect you ability to understand?" If possible, explain ahead that you want to check that we've expressed ourselves clearly.


When speaking in a group, why is it important to be clear about what we want back?
Without a clear request, unproductive discussions often follows because it is unclear whether the initiator has gotten what he wanted.


Why does Marshall mention the Indian custom of saying "bas?"
To show that in some cultures the initiator indicates that they are satisfied and the conversation can move on.

What is the objective of using NVC? Are there situations for NVC is not designed?
To establish relationships based on honesty and empathy that will eventually fulfill everyone's needs. If we only want to change people or their behavior then NVC is not appropriate.


List some common words that are expressive of demands?
should, supposed to, deserve, justified, right
