What are the two parts of NVC?
1. expressing honestly
2. receiving empathically


What are the four components of NVC?
1. what we are observing
2. what we are feeling
3. what we are needing
4. what would we like to request to enrich our lives


What mental condition is required of us in order to extend empathy toward another person?
Emptying our mind and receiving with our whole being.


Instead of offering empathy, what are some other ways people tend to respond when they hear someone expressing pain or dissatisfaction?
advising, one-upping, educating, consoling, story-telling, shutting down, sympathizing, interrogating, explaining/justifying, correcting


Why did Marshall's daughter slam the door in his face after he told her she was gorgeous?
Marshall consoled her but she wanted empathy.


What is the difference between empathy and intellectual understanding someone?
Intellectual understanding requires understanding understanding how a person's words connect to our theories. We are observing them instead of being with them.


What is the difference between sympathy and empathy?
Sympathy is a feeling of care accompanied by a wish for seeing someone better off. Empathy requires being fully present so that for the specific stimulus you can feel the same feelings and need the same needs.


In NVC, as we receive other's words, what are we especially listening for?
Their observations, feelings, needs, and requests. E.g. "You are a fool trusting a stranger with your car!" => lending car, afraid, security, ask family before lending car


Why does Marshall encourage the use of the phrase, "Are you feeling unhappy because you..."
To show that someone's unhappiness derives from their unmet needs.


When people are expressing displeasure toward you, what is the advantage of listening for what they need rather than what they are thinking?
Listening to the needs decreases the likelihood that you will take the message personally.


What purpose does paraphrasing serve?
It confirms that we accurately received the message or if inaccurate it gives the speaker the opportunity to correct us. It also offers the speaker the opportunity to reflect on what they said. 


What does paraphrasing in NVC consist of?
Asking questions that reveal our understanding while eliciting any necessary corrections:
1. what others are observing: "Are you reacting to how many evenings I was hone last week?"
2. how others are feeling and the needs: "are you feeling hurt because you would have liked more appreciation of your efforts than you received?"
3. what others are requesting: "Are you wanting me to tell you my reason for saying what I did?"


What is the difference between NVC paraphrasing and direct questioning? Advantages?
Direct questioning asks for information without conveying empathy for the speaker. Some might get the impression that they are being examined. NVC paraphrasing conveys empathy while asking.


If you experience strong emotions and want to ask direct questions, what should you do first? Why?
You should express your own feelings and needs. "I'm frustrated because I'd like to be clearer about what you are referring to. Would you be willing to tell what I've done that leads you to see me in this way?"


Under what circumstances would you paraphrase or refrain from paraphrasing what someone is saying to you?
If the message is emotionally charged, if you are unsure that you understood the message or if you sense that confirmation is wanted.
Paraphrase only when it contributes to greater compassion and understanding.


If people react negatively to our paraphrasing their words, what might we do?
Continue to sense the speaker's feelings and needs.


Why does Marshall caution us against proceeding quickly toward helping people solve their problems?
Without feeling heard, people might get the impression that we're in a hurry to either be free of them or fix their problem. Furthermore, empathy may allow the other person to fully explore and express their feelings and needs. It is not problem solving if the problem is not understood.


How do we know when a person has received enough empathy and is ready to move on?
When (1) we sense a release of tension, or (2) the flow of words comes to a halt.


What prevents us from offering to someone who is in pain?
We might need empathy ourselves before being able to give empathy.


What can we do when we know that the other person needs, but we hurt too much to offer any?
(1) stop, breathe, give outselves empathy, (2) scream nonviolently, or (3) take time out.


